Date Everything is an impressive dating sim as it expands the number of characters you can date to 100. Each character has a unique personality, and while having 100 of them does sound like a great thing, it can become a repetitive task towards the endgame. You'll need to raise your stats (S.P.E.C.S) by completing stories with each of the objects that come to life with your Dateviator glasses.

 Repetitive Gameplay Spoils Great Concept

Once you reach enough points, you'll be able to turn them into humans. As you reach the 20-hour mark, however, it can be tiresome. 25 hours in, only two characters have been given this honor. It feels like a lofty task, and while each of the characters has mostly been a delight, perhaps the scope of the game is too big for its own good.

The overall aim of the game is to find all of the dateable objects in the game with your newly found glasses. You have to stay in the house as otherwise the glasses won't work. You can talk to five different people per day, and then you have to sleep. There are a few interesting surprises scattered throughout the repetitive process, such as a locked room and your interactions impacting the surrounding environment. It also tests your creativity in more ways than one, but we won't spoil those for you. Overall, the game feels too long in the tooth to keep you interested for that amount of time, but the majority of the title is an absolute blast.

As previously mentioned, there are many likable characters throughout your dating sim journey. Still, as you reach the closing hours of the game, the repetitive format and the characters you detest become taxing. It's far more fun during the beginning when you're trying to find new objects in the house and following "Roomers" placed on your phone; it's almost like a puzzle game in that sense.

 A Brilliant Cast of Characters

Let's discuss the characters, shall we? Date Everything does a superb job of reflecting many people from around the world as products are shipped from many different countries. We have a magnificent piano named Keyes who composes her own music and was created in Nigeria. A cute, adorable blanket named Mateo Manta from Mexico, is looking out for his pets called inanimals. We also have an Italian cabinet with a beautiful accent that "pines" for you (that's the game's pun, not ours). There's even a Canadian Atlas who is fascinated by where many of the characters are from. As you'd expect, she's stereotypically nice and bubbly. Thankfully, Date Everything doesn't rely on negative stereotypes, at least from the 92 we've met so far.

 All of the characters look and sound phenomenal. Their clothes and physical features depend on the furniture they're based on. Cabrizzio's jacket, for example, looks like the door handles and wooden paneling of a cabinet, while the inside shirt has plates and mugs. Meanwhile, Jean-Loo Pissoir (the toilet) has a plunger as a hat and a plunger as a microphone with an overall white-colored clothing design. The artist deserves a raise, as the game is practically faultless in this aspect.

As the game is designed and executive produced by a voice actor, Ray Chase (Final Fantasy XV), it's no surprise that it has a stellar cast. Laura Bailey (Uncharted 4) and Johnny Yong Bosch (Devil May Cry V) play an arguing couple named Harper and Dirk, who are on the verge of breaking up with the correct amount of drama. Dante the Fireplace is perfectly cast with Dante Basco (the voice of firebender Zuko from Avatar: The Last Airbender). Basco plays the cool guy so well and honestly melts your heart every time you hear his performance.

 Not All Characters Are Perfect

Some characters can be annoying, however, but this seems to be on purpose. Just like life, not everyone will be pleasant to talk to. Mitchell Linn is a bit of an obtuse food critic, while Telly's zany personality can be much for many. Lux is probably the worst, however, as he's a pre-Madonna social media star who constantly thinks of himself. But the positive is that everyone has a type, so there will be at least a few objects you'll want to date.

Unfortunately, that's the problem. As the game continues, you'll need to pursue characters you don't necessarily like very much. With some objects, you'll want to skip all of their dialogue. The best thing is that you don't have to fall in love with everyone. They can become friends or even hate you, depending on your dialogue choices. You'll get rewarded with S.P.E.C.S points, regardless of the relationship status.
The Amount of Content Is Impressive

There's so much spoken dialogue in the game and it's super impressive. The publisher, Team17, says there are 1.5 million words in the script with 70,000 voicelines. There are three different endings for each character in the game, with branching dialogue all over. You can have completely different conversations in multiple playthroughs.

The nice thing is that there's a New Game+ mode after you beat the game, letting you go through the dialogue again but with the stats you previously didn't have. Dialogue options that were once locked due to not having enough Smarts or Charm, etc, is now available. It's also cool that each of the characters has their own theme as well, leading to over four hours of music; each sound correct to the personality with some bangers here and there.

 Thankfully, the writing is on-point. Yes, it's cringe at times, but that's the whole point. These objects have a clear identity and have weaknesses they reveal as you spend more time with them. Ironically, they are some of the most human-like characters you'll see in a dating sim. They each have their own fears and dreams they aspire for. Some are very goofy, while others will genuinely make you teary. Date Everything is a wild ride.
Some Issues to Bring Up

Some issues came up with repeated scenarios. For some reason, at rare moments in the game, a scene, often important, is repeated. It breaks the immersion of the game as you have to go through the same dialogue, mashing the cross button or left mouse button over and over. Additionally, there are sound issues. As you scroll through the Date-A-Dex (a tool that lets you see all the available bachelors, bachelorettes,and people), there's an annoyingly loud beep that makes the experience unpleasant.

Another fault of the game is how the game lacks some direction at points. Curt & Rod's storyline seems to be impossible to continue, despite interacting with every pair of curtains in the house. Abel's storyline is all over the place as he's a table. He's in almost every room and it's hard to keep track of where the narrative continues. It's trial and error with the friendly, Southern Abel.

The last major fault is when a character that is supposed to hate you helps you out in other characters' conversations and quests. Some seem to acknowledge the player in a positive way, despite closing you out of their life previously. There are a few plot holes that could have been fixed, but admittedly, with Date Everything having 100 characters, this may be hard to track. It's also strange that all of the characters are fine with you dating others in the house, but this is something we can let slide. It is supposed to be fun after all.

Closing Comments:

Date Everything! is a charming dating sim, but as the hours go by, it'll start to become monotonous, especially towards the end, as you talk to characters you're not particularly interested in to gain S.P.E.C.S points. For the most part, however, this is a wonderful game with immaculate character artwork, well-thought-out writing and surprisingly nuanced performances from the voice cast. It would be fun if we could get a sequel of some kind in a different house. You could have all new objects, themed to another person's life. Nevertheless, this game features tons of content that will keep you playing for days on end.