Kangaskhan (Japanese: ガルーラ Garura) is a Normal-type Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

While it is not known to evolve into or from any other Pokémon, Kangaskhan can Mega Evolve into Mega Kangaskhan using the Kangaskhanite.

Biology

Kangaskhan is a large, bipedal marsupial Pokémon that vaguely resembles a kangaroo. It has a brown hide with several raised patches and a cream-colored belly. It has large, cream-colored ears, narrow, red eyes, and a short, rounded snout with two fangs in the back of its upper jaw. On top of its head is a thick, black plate. There are epaulette-like growths over its shoulders and a row of spikes down its back. It has three clawed digits on each hand and foot and a thick tail. On its belly is a pouch that contains a baby Kangaskhan. Unlike its parent, the baby is light purple and has smooth skin. Kangaskhan is a female-only species with no male counterpart.

Kangaskhan is a nurturing Pokémon that protects its young at all costs. It can move really fast, even with the baby in its pouch. The baby leaves the pouch only rarely until it is three years old. In order to avoid crushing the baby, Kangaskhan sleeps standing up. If the mother feels the environment is safe, it will allow its young to play. However, it will violently attack anything that it sees as a threat to its young. As mentioned in Pokémon Sleep, Kangaskhan will defend the baby in its pouch, even while it sleeps.[1] If the baby is awake but the parent wants to sleep, Kangaskhan will lie down to sleep while the baby sits on top of its back. They are known to raise other species of Pokémon alongside their own children, and records exist that describe a childless Kangaskhan raising a lost human child. Regardless of how badly injured it becomes, the mother will not cease fighting until its young is safe. It uses quick jabs to intimidate its enemies. Although it was nearly hunted to extinction, Kangaskhan can be found in savannahs and other grasslands.

Prior to Generation III, Dizzy Punch was its signature move.
Forms

Kangaskhan can Mega Evolve into Mega Kangaskhan.

As Mega Kangaskhan, the mother Kangaskhan appears unchanged. However, the baby temporarily grows and gains some new features. There are now raised patches on its knees similar to those seen on its mother. These patches also appear aligned horizontally along its waist with a larger patch on its belly. Small, spiked growths appear underneath its ears.

The child is feisty, hates to lose, and will boldly challenge its opponents to protect its mother.[2] The mother's happiness over its child's growth is the source of its additional strength. However, it feels uneasy about the child's future, as it is only skilled at fighting and nothing else. It is also saddened by the reminder that its child will one day leave. Mega Kangaskhan and its child are known to display harmonious teamwork in battle.

Mega Kangaskhan is the only known Pokémon that can have Parental Bond as an Ability.