Corsola is a dual-type Water/Rock Pokémon introduced in Generation II.

In Galar, Corsola has a Ghost-type regional form. Galarian Corsola evolves into Cursola starting at level 38. Johtonian Corsola is not known to evolve into or from any other Pokémon.
Biology

Corsola is a small, pink, roundish Pokémon with branch-like growths on its back, which are similar to coral. There is a smaller, blunt horn on its forehead, and it has oval-shaped black eyes and a smiling mouth. It has a light blue underside, which speckles towards the sides. Its four legs and two arms are blunt and stubby.

Smaller Pokémon like Horsea and Luvdisc are sometimes sheltered by Corsola's branches and even offer it protection from foes. Corsola's horn is a prized material, commonly used for jewelry and carving, as seen in the Pokémon the Series episode A Corsola Caper!. Some people keep Corsola branches as charms to promote safe childbirth. Corsola's branches glitter very beautifully in seven colors when they catch sunlight. If any branch breaks off, this Pokémon grows it back in just one night.

Found in the warm shallow waters of southern seas, Corsola requires clean water to live. If its habitat is dirty, the growths on its back become discolored and degenerate. However, when it is healthy, its growths regularly shed and grow back; it is able to regrow them over the course of a single night. It forms large social groups. Occasionally, these groups get so large that people may live atop them, as is the case in Pacifidlog Town.

In the Alola region, Mareanie and Toxapex are natural predators of Corsola, preying on its branches. If pursued by them, Corsola will sometimes snap its own branches off as a diversion. Conversely, Mareanie and Toxapex do not prey on Corsola in the Galar region, having not developed a taste for its branches.
Forms
Corsola has a regional form: Galarian Corsola.

Galarian Corsola were wiped out by sudden changes in the climate and ocean temperature, turning them into Ghost-types. Its body is a bleached white with half-closed pink eyes and a perpetual frown, and its arms, horn, and branches are wavy and translucent. These branches are incorporeal and can disappear at will, revealing the holes in Galarian Corsola's shell. They cannot cause injuries or pain, but they can be used to take root inside and drain the life force of others, and will immobilize the victim until Galarian Corsola lets them go.[1]

Galarian Corsola are commonly found in the remains of prehistoric seas, and while they can be mistaken for ordinary rocks, they will curse anybody who kicks them by accident. Galarian Corsola consumes spirit energy from the life force its absorbs. This diet eventually causes Corsola's shell to break, its body to become incorporeal, and its spirit energy to pour out, thus completing its Evolution into Cursola.[2]
Evolution

Galarian Corsola

In Galar, Corsola has a regional form that evolves into Cursola.