Sableye is a dual-type Dark/Ghost Pokémon introduced in Generation III.

While it is not known to evolve into or from any other Pokémon, Sableye can Mega Evolve into Mega Sableye using the Sablenite.
Biology

Sableye is a bipedal humanoid Pokémon with a dark purple body, armed with sharp teeth and claws, which it uses to dig through soil. It has pale blue, gemstone-like eyes, which allow it to see in low light and sparkle in the dark. It also has a red gemstone on its chest, and its back has a blue and green gemstone as well as another red one. These gem-like eyes and adornments on its body are caused by its diet, which consists of rocks and raw gemstones. Because of this, each individual Sableye can create an infinite number of patterns on its body.

It also targets Carbink as prey, though they are usually taken by Gabite before Sableye can reach them. It is feared by people since it is said to steal a person's soul if they look into its eyes. It is nocturnal and is rarely seen. Sableye makes its habitat in the darkness of caves. It uses its claws to dig for gems to eat and for combat. As mentioned in the Sleep Style Dex, Sableye is known to occasionally sleep while holding its gemstones.[1] It is believed that Sableye dreams of eating gemstones until it feels satisfied. In the Pokémon Horizons: The Series episode HZ092, Sableye was shown targeting the Legendary Pokémon Terapagos as prey.

Sableye is the only known Pokémon that can have Stall as an Ability.
Forms

Sableye can Mega Evolve into Mega Sableye.

As Mega Sableye, being bathed in Mega Evolution energy causes the red jewel on its chest to rip out of Sableye's skin and significantly increase in size; the detached jewel leaves a small hole in Mega Sableye's chest. Its ears elongate, and it gains a spike on the top of its head. Its teeth turn from white to yellow, and its eyes also change from pale blue to crimson red, with diagonal slits at their inner edges. Its back gains more gems: a second green one, a second red one, and two small yellow gems.

The enlarged jewel is said to boast such incredible hardness that no attack can even leave a scratch on it. During battle, Mega Sableye shelters itself behind the jewel, from where it can take advantage of any openings its target leaves exposed.[2] However, being forced to support its massive jewel leaves Sableye unable to turn quickly, making it vulnerable from behind. As seen in the animated series, the giant jewel wears off and shrinks as it blocks attacks. Once the jewel is reduced to a very small size, Sableye will eat it before reverting back from its Mega-Evolved state in the process.