Murkrow is a dual-type Dark/Flying Pokémon introduced in Generation II.

It evolves into Honchkrow when exposed to a Dusk Stone.
Biology

Murkrow is an avian Pokémon with black feathers. Its crooked, yellow beak and the three, feathery tufts on its head resemble a witch's nose and hat respectively. The feathery crest is smaller on the female than on the male. It has semi-circular, red eyes with white sclerae and pupils and a spiky collar of feathers around its neck. The shaggy feathers on its tail resemble the end of a broom, and there is a thin, red band at the base of the tail. Its yellow feet have four toes, three facing forward and one backward.

Murkrow awakens at dusk and moves during the night. It has a fondness for anything sparkly, and it will go as far as fighting with other Pokémon, such as Meowth or Gabite, in order to gain their stashes. However, it is also known to give these sparkly objects to Trainers that it is fond of. Whenever it is chased, it loses the attacker by leading it down dark mountain trails, and sometimes it does this to travelers as a mean-spirited prank. Its thieving and nocturnal nature has led it to become representative of misfortune. It was believed that saying, "Workrum, Workrum—bad luck, don't come," would serve as a protective incantation to drive away bad luck caused by seeing a Murkrow. It is possible to train a Murkrow to repeat words, as seen under Team Rocket's ownership. Murkrow usually live in flocks (referred to as "murders") amongst forests and swamps. Murkrow may also act as a servant of Honchkrow; with groups of at least 100 flying in at Honchkrow's call. There is a saying for Murkrow that goes, "Get home before the Murkrow fly." As mentioned in Sleep Style Dex, Murkrow has been seen falling asleep before it can hide all of its shiny objects. It is believed the reason is due to Murkrow becoming exhausted from searching and hiding said objects. Murkrow has four different sleep styles it sleeps in: Preening Sleep, Big-Yawn Sleep, Gem-Gathering Sleep, and Atop-Belly Sleep.


Evolution

Murkrow evolves into Honchkrow.