Skeledirge is a dual-type Fire/Ghost Pokémon introduced in Generation IX.

It evolves from Crocalor starting at level 36. It is the final form of Fuecoco.
Biology

Skeledirge is a large, red, crocodilian Pokémon covered in rectangular scales. Its belly is angular and has a white coloration flanked by black stripes on either side, resembling an open suit jacket and dress shirt. It also has various white-colored patterns on its head, lower jaw, neck, back, shoulders, arms, legs, and the cylindrical tip of its tail. The white coloration on the top of its head resembles a lute. Skeledirge has three black claws on each foot, and although it usually walks on all fours, it is capable of standing on its hind legs.

Skeledirge's head is delineated with a black circular shape at the top. It has black eyes with yellow irises and red eyelids, serrated jaws with purple insides, and various square and triangular patterns that come in red, orange, yellow, and purple. A wreath of solid orange-and-yellow fire energy emerges from the back of Skeledirge's jaws, which circles around its head.

There is an orange fiery bird resting on top of Skeledirge's head, which is a separate, independent entity from the Pokémon.[1] This bird is spherical, with a yellow face, white eyes, a short crest and tail, and a singular tiny pointed "foot" it balances itself on. It is said that the bird was born when the egg-shaped fireball Skeledirge had as a Crocalor gained a soul, which also gave Skeledirge its Ghost typing.[1] The bird can sometimes be seen pecking at Skeledirge's jaws, supposedly cleaning its teeth.

As shown in Pokémon Sleep, Skeledirge and its pre-Evolutions are known to sometimes sleep with one eye open. The fiery bird on Skeledirge's head sometimes moves about and even plays pranks on it when Skeledirge's sleep is shallow, a behavior which Skeledirge tolerates.

Skeledirge has a meddlesome but caring personality. Its singing is gentle, but powerful and full of vitality, capable of soothing the souls of all who hears it. Opponents hearing its singing will feel warm and fulfilled inside, losing their will to battle.[1] Skeledirge burns its enemies by unleashing flames that exceed the temperature of 5,400 °F (3,000 °C). When Skeledirge sings, its fire bird transforms into a microphone for Skeledirge, growing its "foot" longer until it reaches the ground. The bird is then powered up by the Skeledirge's singing, growing larger, and flying towards its enemy.

Skeledirge is the only known Pokémon capable of learning Torch Song.
Evolution

Skeledirge evolves from Crocalor and is the final form of Fuecoco.