Marshadow is a dual-type Fighting/Ghost Mythical Pokémon introduced in Generation VII.

It is not known to evolve into or from any other Pokémon.

Marshadow was officially revealed on April 7, 2017.

Marshadow is the last Pokémon in the Alola Pokédex in Sun and Moon, before the Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon expansion.

In the movie I Choose You!, it is associated with Ho-Oh.
Biology

Marshadow is a humanoid Pokémon that appears to be made of smoky gray shadows. The area around its face resembles headgear, such as a helmet. On top of the helmet are two curled horns or ears with a wispy horn between them. Its eyes are orange-red with yellow pupils, and above each eye is a yellow, oval marking. Each arm has a small bump on the wrist. Around its neck is a smoky collar, and there is a trail of shadows on each foot.

When angered or attacking, Marshadow's fighting spirit will begin to burn,[1], turning it into Zenith Marshadow (Japanese: ぜんりょくのマーシャドー Full-Powered Marshadow).[2][3] In this state, its headgear, wrist bumps, and collar flare up and resemble green and yellow flames. Marshadow's eyes also flare up when in this state, but do not change in color.

Very few people have seen it, being left undiscovered for a long time so its existence has been the stuff of legends and myths. Marshadow is a cautious Pokémon and can sink into the shadows to ensure it is not noticed, similarly to Gengar. While hiding in the shadows of others, it can understand their feelings and even copy their abilities. Through mimicry, it will eventually become more powerful than those it imitates. It can even learn the ultimate technique of martial arts masters it copies. As seen in the movie I Choose You!, Marshadow is also capable of causing nightmares. In the same movie, Marshadow can also shapeshift and stretch out its arms. While corrupted by the Rainbow Feather, it can even take control of countless Pokémon with the power of its shadows.

Marshadow is the only known Pokémon capable of learning the move Spectral Thief. Marshadow is also the only known Pokémon capable of using the Z-Move Soul-Stealing 7-Star Strike.
