Ursaluna is a dual-type Ground/Normal Pokémon introduced during Generation VIII, in Pokémon Legends: Arceus.

It evolves from Ursaring when exposed to a Peat Block during a full moon. It is the final form of Teddiursa.

In Kitakami, there is a particular Ursaluna, known as the "Bloodmoon Beast", that has a unique form called Bloodmoon Ursaluna.
Biology

Ursaluna is a large, quadrupedal dark brown bearlike Pokémon with a gray pelt around its large, humped back, paws, and round tail. The pelt has nine rectangular brown spikes on its back and four rectangular spikes on each side of its head. The front paws have five claws each while the back paws have three claws. Its face has a light-yellow circle resembling a full moon on the forehead, two gray eyebrows resembling clouds, and a light yellow snout that contains a small, black nose and sharp canine teeth.

Ursaluna's Evolution is believed to have been triggered by Ursaring being exposed to the swampy terrain of the Hisui region during a full moon. Ursaluna's physique allows it to travel through the swamps with ease, and it can also manipulate peat to its advantage. Ursaluna are known to be good at searching for items, and even missing persons, using their sense of smell.

A special Ursaluna is worshipped in Hisui for him being a descendant of the ten ancient Pokémon blessed by Arceus. He is one of the Ride Pokémon who resides in Crimson Mirelands, watched over by the warden Calaba. This special Ursaluna is known to assist humans.
Forms

A particular Ursaluna has a unique form called Bloodmoon Ursaluna. Known as the "Bloodmoon Beast", it is stated that this Ursaluna is the only one known to exist, and is unique in that its altered appearance cannot be attributed to Evolution or form change.[1] The name of this unique Ursaluna comes from the distinctive red moon mark on its forehead.

Taller, bulkier, and lighter in color than a regular Ursaluna, its appearance is otherwise largely similar, except for the full moon-like circular mark on its forehead, which is larger and bright red, resembling a blood moon. Its left eye, which allows it to see in the dark, is black with a green pupil smaller than the right eye's pupil and has what appears to be a scar near the eye. Its hands, legs, chest, back, and the left half of its face are covered in grey mud that is as hard as iron. Unlike regular Ursaluna, this Ursaluna walks on its hind legs (though it still runs on all fours).

This Ursaluna is very old, having used to live in the Hisui region a long time ago until it drifted across the seas and arrived at Kitakami, where it made residence in the land's Timeless Woods. It gained special powers due to adapting to the hard environment of Kitakami. It is highly alert and rarely makes itself seen, but it tends to appear during foggy nights. Bloodmoon Ursaluna can unleash the full brunt of its spirit from the red moon mark in its forehead.

Bloodmoon Ursaluna is the only known Pokémon capable of learning the move Blood Moon, and the only known Pokémon that can have Mind's Eye as an Ability.
Evolution

Ursaluna evolves from Ursaring in Hisui and is the final form of Teddiursa in the Hisui region.