Arcanine is a Fire-type Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

It evolves from Growlithe when exposed to a Fire Stone.

In Hisui, Arcanine has a dual-type Fire/Rock regional form. It evolves from Hisuian Growlithe when exposed to a Fire Stone.

Biology

Arcanine is a quadrupedal, canine Pokémon with an orange pelt marked by jagged black stripes. It has diamond-shaped ears with beige insides, black eyes, a round, black nose, and two pointed teeth protruding from its upper jaw. Its head, muzzle, and chest are covered in shaggy, beige fur, except for two oval sections around each eye and ear. Long tufts of fur grow behind its elbows and around its ankles. Its underside is black, and it has a billowing, beige tail that is bent in the middle. Each paw has three toes and a round, pink pad.

Arcanine is a fiercely brave and loyal Pokémon. It is capable of running 6,200 miles in 24 hours with a speed and grace reminiscent of flight. In Generation II, Extreme Speed was its signature move. Arcanine has long been admired for its beauty and speed, and anyone who hears its bark will grovel before it. The source of its power is a flame blazing wildly inside its body. Being the result of an Evolution via Evolution stone, Arcanine is rarely found in the wild, but when found, it is usually seen living in prairies, and Pokémon Snap has also shown it living in active volcanoes. In the Pokémon the Series episode On Cloud Arcanine, it was shown that it stashes food in its mane and carries it to its nest for its young. As shown in Pokémon Sleep, Arcanine is known to sleep at supremely comfortable sleeping spot.[1] Arcanine when it sleeps is said to be similar to how an innocent child sleeps.

In some locations, such as China, Arcanine is seen as a Legendary Pokémon, where it's revered for its speed and power; it is also categorized as Legendary in An Illustrated Book of POCKET MONSTERS.
Forms

Arcanine has a regional form: Hisuian Arcanine.

In Hisui, Arcanine has a different look due to the volcanic activity of the environment it lives in. Its body fur is red-orange while its muzzle, mane, tail, eyebrows, and tufts of fur behind its elbows and around its ankles are gray, and the insides of its ears are light gray. The gray fur is made out of igneous rock components. Its cheek mane, ankle fur, and tail form into curls. Its elbow fur resemble wings. It has a large horn in the center of its head and three small horns between its head and ears. Its mane form into curled clumps at the back of its neck and large rectangular clumps on the sides and bottom of its neck. The rectangular clumps have light red-orange markings on them.

Hisuian Arcanine uses its fangs while engulfed in flames to snap at foes. Despite how deceivingly bulky Hisuian Arcanine is, it moves around nimbly like a dancer. This allows it to lead opponents in a merry chase while avoiding them at the same time. It lives in coastal mountainsides.

A special Hisuian Arcanine is worshiped by the Hisui people due to him being descended from one of the 10 ancient Pokémon who received a blessing from Arceus. He is one of the noble Pokémon who resides in Cobalt Coastlands watched by a Warden Palina.
Evolution

Arcanine evolves from Growlithe.

Hisuian Arcanine evolves from Hisuian Growlithe.