Lilligant is a Grass-type Pokémon introduced in Generation V.

It evolves from Petilil when exposed to a Sun Stone.

In Hisui, Lilligant has a dual-type Grass/Fighting regional form. It evolves from Petilil when exposed to a Sun Stone. All Petilil in Hisui will evolve into this form regardless of their origin.
Biology

Lilligant is a humanoid Pokémon with plant characteristics. It dons a scarlet flower with white-spotted petals upon its head; said flower has golden filaments with red anther, resembling a crown. It possesses dark green, linear leaves under the flower, and light green, linear leaves underneath the darker leaves. One of the light green leaves, on the back of its head, is about as long as its body and resembles hair. Two light green leaves loosely hang down from its head. Its head and abdomen are white and its eyes, which resemble seeds, are a light shade of scarlet. It has dark green, linear leaves for arms, and a golden sepal under its neck. It wears a large, light green, tulip shaped collection of leaves, resembling a dress. There are two long, dark green, linear leaves coming from its back to around the bottom of its "dress". It also possesses another golden, sepal-shaped extension underneath its "dress", resembling feet.

Though Lilligant is popular with celebrities, veteran Trainers and first-rate gardeners alike have struggled to coax the flower on Lilligant's head into blooming. The flowers bloomed by Lilligant in the wild are also said to be the most beautiful despite all these efforts. Once it blooms, it will wilt if Lilligant is then neglected or when it finds a male partner. The flower emits a sweet-smelling aroma, and it is believed to have a relaxing effect on those exposed to the scent. The flower's fragrance differs slightly depending on the soil it was cultivated in. The oil made by Lilligant's flowers has a sublime scent and is very expensive to buy. It is a rare Pokémon that lives in forests. Lilligant is a female-only species with no male counterpart.
Forms

Lilligant has an ancient regional form: Hisuian Lilligant.

In Hisui, Lilligant takes on a drastically different look. Hisuian Lilligant has a more lithe build. Its head and torso are white and its wide hips are covered in light green leaves, with two small slightly darker leaves coming out from either side. On the left side of its head is a six-petaled pink flower with short filaments jutting out from it, and dark green leaves underneath it. The scent released from this flower causes anyone nearby to experience a heartened feeling. Its eyes are light pink and purple. The leaves on its head that resemble hair are much shorter than on Unovan Lilligant. The sepal around its neck is also smaller. Hisuian Lilligant's arms are green, with its forearms being a lighter green. They are much longer and thinner than those of Unovan Lilligant. It also has long, powerful legs, and they are white with a dark pink gradient at the calves. Its feet are golden and cover part of its legs, and they seem to resemble dance shoes or snow boots.

Hisuian Lilligant is suspected to have its legs developed as a result of living in the snowy mountains of Hisui; they allow it to jump very high and gracefully. The scent in its flower crown heartens those in proximity. Its attacks take form of ballet-like moves, almost like it's dancing during battle.

A special Hisuian Lilligant is worshiped in Hisui due to her being descended from one of the 10 ancient Pokémon who received a blessing from Arceus. In particular, she is one of the Noble Pokémon who resides in Crimson Mirelands, watched over by the warden Arezu.

Hisuian Lilligant is the only known Pokémon capable of learning the move Victory Dance.
Evolution

Lilligant evolves from Petilil.

In Hisui, Lilligant has a regional form that evolves from Petilil.