Typhlosion is a Fire-type Pokémon introduced in Generation II.

It evolves from Quilava starting at level 36. It is the final form of Cyndaquil.

In Hisui, Typhlosion has a dual-type Fire/Ghost regional form. It evolves from Quilava starting at level 36. It is the final form of Cyndaquil in the Hisui region.

Biology

Typhlosion is a bulky mammalian Pokémon with a long, yet agile body. It is classified as a quadruped, but it is capable of bipedal movement. Most of its body is cream-colored, but its back and the top of its head are a dark green-blue. It has a short, rounded snout and small, triangular eyes and ears. When its mouth is open, its sharp canine teeth and thick tongue are visible. Each of its paws has five digits and there is a coarse, spiky fringe of fur along its rear. Across the back of its neck, several red spots can produce fire.

Typhlosion is capable of making anything go up in flames when angered and creating explosions by rubbing its fur together. The heat it generates when ready for battle creates a shimmering haze that can also be used to hide itself. When fully enraged, anything Typhlosion touches instantly goes up in flames. Though it is rare in the wild, it can be found living on grasslands. As mentioned in Pokémon Sleep, Typhlosion is known to toss and turn while sleeping.[1] Because this behavior causes its fur to rub together, creating accidental explosions, it is recommended to avoid a sleeping Typhlosion.
Forms

Typhlosion has a regional form: Hisuian Typhlosion.

Hisuian Typhlosion's appearance is believed to have been influenced by the energy emanating from Mount Coronet at the center of the Hisui region. Its ears droop beside its head. The fur on its back is a purplish-blue color, and extends to the front of its neck, forming a collar pattern. It has fire-producing spots all around its neck, covering the collar pattern, and these spots produce flames that wisp in a bright magenta red color.

Hisuian Typhlosion has graceful and refined movements, and a gentler, more pacifistic nature compared to Johtonian Typhlosion. It can often be seen staring into space; it is assumed that as Hisuian Typhlosion does this, it looks at the flow of life energy and searches for wayward spirits and lost souls to eat. It is believed that Hisuian Typhlosion purifies spirits with its flames as it eats them before it guides them back to the afterlife where they belong. Despite its peaceful nature, Hisuian Typhlosion can lose control of its emotions when sufficiently angered and can unleash ghost flames that can incinerate its opponents until nothing remains. It can emit a total of 108 ghost flames from the spots on its neck. Once unleashed, every single ghost flame attacks its opponents while taking on the appearance of ferocious beasts.[2]

Hisuian Typhlosion is the only known Pokémon capable of learning the move Infernal Parade.
Evolution

Typhlosion evolves from Quilava and is the final form of Cyndaquil.

In Hisui, Typhlosion has a regional form that evolves from Quilava and is the final form of Cyndaquil.