Mimikyu is a dual-type Ghost/Fairy Pokémon introduced in Generation VII.

While it is not known to evolve into or from any other Pokémon, Mimikyu changes forms, from Disguised Form into Busted Form, when it is hit by an attack.
Biology

Mimikyu is a small Pokémon whose body is almost entirely hidden under an old rag. Its small size makes it one of the shortest Ghost types. Its eyes are beady black through the holes in the body of its disguise however, as seen in the animated series, its eyes are actually purple. Fringe of an amorphous foot or lower body is visible under the hem as well. Occasionally, it will also extend a long, black claw-like appendage from under its rag. When angered, its eyes will glow yellow. The veil itself resembles a Pikachu. The cloth is yellow with black-tipped ears. The Pikachu face appears to be drawn with crayons, consisting of black eyes, red cheeks, and a squiggly black mouth. The rag's head is hollow and can be used to store objects. Mimikyu also carries a small stick resembling a lightning bolt to create a tail for its costume. When its disguise is damaged, the costume's head droops limply backward, revealing Mimikyu's ruse. Larger rips in the costume are accompanied by shadowy vapors pouring out from whatever is hidden within.

A lonely Pokémon, Mimikyu is always covered by its disguise. It is unknown what Mimikyu's true appearance looks like. However, glimpses of it are seen, such as its claw, its underside, and its eyes. Since this Pokémon is weakened by sunlight, it is rumored that the veil is used for protection. It is believed that seeing its true form will cause a mysterious illness or even a painful death. Because of this, Mimikyu will become agitated and violently stop anyone from attempting to look underneath its rag.

Mimikyu's disguise is modeled after Pikachu because of the popularity of Pikachu-styled merchandise, thinking that its disguise would allow it to make friends with people.[1] It uses the disguise to bond more with humans and other Pokémon. Unfortunately, this attempt makes its disguise look more creepy. Until recent times, Mimikyu was initially thought by humans to be just a ghost wearing a cloth. As mentioned in Pokémon Sleep, Mimikyu mimics Pikachu to the point it even sleeps similar to it. Its relationship to Pikachu can vary between individuals and canons, with some being antagonistic, as seen in Pokémon the Series: Sun & Moon, or can be friendly, as shown in the short, A Mimikyu Bedtime Story.

A special Mimikyu in Alola acts as the Totem Pokémon for Acerola's trial in an abandoned Thrifty Megamart. This Mimikyu possesses Z-Power, an energy that originates from Ultra Wormholes and takes the form of a golden, flaring aura. The reward for defeating Totem Mimikyu and completing the trial is a Ghostium Z.

Mimikyu is the only known Pokémon capable of using the Z-Move Let's Snuggle Forever. It is also the only known Pokémon that can have Disguise as its Ability.
Forms

Mimikyu has two forms: Disguised Form and Busted Form.

Mimikyu changes into its Busted Form when it is hit by an attack and its neck breaks, causing it to slump over and no longer convincingly resemble a Pikachu. Ordinarily, the rag it wears allows Mimikyu to avoid attacks. Mimikyu will attempt to keep up its disguise, even if its rag is broken. However, if its rag does get damaged or its neck gets broken, it will spend all night patching it in front of a mirror as if its life depends on it. Repairing the rag correctly is often difficult for Mimikyu, so it cries a lot on the inside. It then seeks revenge on the one that damaged it, fearing that its true identity could have been exposed. Unforgiving, Mimikyu will take down the culprit at the risk of costing its own life in the process. Mimikyu will never forget the person who damaged its rag for as long as it is still alive.
