Venusaur is a dual-type Grass/Poison Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

It evolves from Ivysaur starting at level 32. It is the final form of Bulbasaur.

Venusaur has two forms: Mega Venusaur and Gigantamax Venusaur. It can Mega Evolve into Mega Venusaur using the Venusaurite, and can Gigantamax into Gigantamax Venusaur if it has the Gigantamax Factor. Gigantamax Venusaur was introduced in The Isle of Armor.

Venusaur is the game mascot of Pokémon Green and its remake Pokémon LeafGreen, appearing on the box art of both games.

Biology
Venusaur is a squat, quadrupedal amphibian Pokémon with bumpy, blue-green skin. It has small, circular red eyes and a short, blunt snout. Its mouth is wide with two pointed teeth in the upper jaw and four in the lower jaw. On top of its head are small, pointed ears with reddish-pink insides. It has three clawed toes on each foot. The bud on its back has bloomed into a large pink, white-spotted flower. The flower is supported by a thick, brown trunk surrounded by green fronds. A female Venusaur has a gynoecium in the center of its flower.

Venusaur uses its flower to catch the sun's rays to convert them into energy, which causes the flower to become more vibrant. The flower releases a soothing scent that attracts Pokémon and calms emotions. This scent becomes stronger after a rainy day. Venusaur is at its strongest in the summertime when there is much more sunlight to absorb. As shown in Pokémon Sleep, Venusaur releases a soothing fragrance while sleeping. Venusaur has four different sleep styles it sleeps in: Sunbathing Sleep, Sturdy Sleep, Vines-Out Sleep, and Atop-Belly Sleep. In the Pokémon the Series: The Beginning episode Bulbasaur's Mysterious Garden, Venusaur has demonstrated the ability to manipulate nature, release several vines from its back, and lead Evolution ceremonies for Bulbasaur and Ivysaur. This Pokémon is rarely found in the wild, but it has been known to inhabit grasslands.

Venusaur has two forms: Mega Venusaur and Gigantamax Venusaur.

Mega Venusaur

When Mega Evolved, the flower on Venusaur's back grows more prominent, and two smaller pink flowers bloom, one on its forehead and one on its rear. Its legs and back have become sturdier to support the extra weight of the flower.[1] Additional leaves with woody stems, supported by vines, are also grown around the flower. Mega Venusaur also develops dark markings on its forehead below the new flower on its forehead.

Gigantamax Venusaur

As Gigantamax Venusaur, it becomes larger with its flower blooming even further, covering its body. These flowers have a taller bud and extraordinarily thick, springy petals capable of shielding Gigantamax Venusaur. Its eyes have light green sclerae and orange irises. More foliage grows from under its flower, and the trunk supporting it becomes shorter. It has several light green markings located at its belly.

Gigantamax Venusaur attacks with its thick vines, which are powerful enough to topple down a 10-story building. Gigantamax Venusaur's flower can similarly spread enough pollen to resemble a volcanic eruption. Breathing in this pollen can cause uncontrollable sneezing, and inhaling large amounts can even cause fainting. However, this pollen also promotes plant growth in areas where it lands.[2]

Gigantamax Venusaur is the only known Pokémon capable of using the G-Max Move G-Max Vine Lash.

Evolution

Venusaur evolves from Ivysaur and is the final form of Bulbasaur.