Meowstic is a Psychic-type Pokémon introduced in Generation VI.

It evolves from Espurr starting at level 25.
Biology

Meowstic is a bipedal, feline Pokémon whose appearance differs drastically between genders. Both genders have two tails, folded ears, a small collar of fur around the neck, and a tuft of fur on top of the head. On the inner surface of the tips of each ear, there is an eye-like organ with a ring at its center. This organ can emit psychic energy powerful enough to obliterate a 10-ton truck or tanker into dust. When emitting psychic powers, the organ glows light blue. Meowstic usually keeps its ears folded at all times to keep its psychic powers in check, but it will unleash this power if threatened.

The male Meowstic is predominantly dark blue. Its eyes are green with light blue sclerae. The organ in its ears is green with a light blue ring. The tuft of fur between its ears is white and curves slightly to the side and the collar around its neck is white with several stray tufts of fur. It has pointed ears with white at the fold and on the tips of its ears; there is also a white ring near the tips of its ears. Its tails are also pointed with white tips and a white ring near the end. There is a tuft of fur on each hip and it has white paws.

Male Meowstic have a strong defensive instinct, as it prefers to support its allies rather than attack, despite having powerful psychic powers to blast away any opponent. They are willing to use their full power to protect themselves or their partners. When a male Meowstic continues to emit its powerful psychic energy, it will damage its body as a side effect.

The female Meowstic is predominantly white. Its ears have no markings and curled tips and its eyes are red with yellow sclerae. The organ in its ears is red with a yellow ring. The tuft of fur on its head is blue and curled, as is the collar around its neck. Its tails are blue at the base and end in white, fluffy curls. There are blue, stocking-like markings around its paws and two tufts of fur on each hip.

Female Meowstic are known to be more selfish, aggressive, and aversive than their male counterparts. Should the female Meowstic not get what it wants, it will torment anyone with its psychic abilities. Female Meowstic generally have a stoic expression even when using their psychic powers. When they sense danger, they will unleash their psychic power at its maximum strength, with no regard for their opponents.

Male and female Meowstic differ by moves they learn.
Evolution

Meowstic evolves from Espurr.