Lurantis is a Grass-type Pokémon introduced in Generation VII.

It evolves from Fomantis when leveled up in the day starting at level 34.
Biology

Lurantis is a plantlike Pokémon that resembles a mantis. The top half of its head is light pink, while the bottom half is white. It has light red eyes, and two green antennae with a small green lump between them. There are four extensions to the top half of its head: two on the top with red tips that resemble ears, and one on each side with white tips that resemble stylized hair. It has a light pink body with wavy, skirt-like extensions around the waist and a green abdomen and neck. Its thin, white arms end in large, red scythes with white along the bottom rim and a single green claw on the tip. There are vertical, pink-and-red stripes down its legs, which have small, pointed green feet. The coloring and shape of Lurantis's body and arms give it the appearance of wearing a long-sleeved dress, while its legs are similar to pants. Four red, wing-like appendages sprout from its back, each tipped with white.

Lurantis both looks and smells like a flower, a trait that it exploits to lure foes in for a surprise attack. By gathering light, Lurantis can fire laser beams using its sickle-like arms, and these beams are strong enough to cleave thick metal plates. Its brilliant coloration and elegant moves have earned it acclaim as the most glamorous Grass-type Pokémon. However, it does disguise itself as a Bug Pokémon for protection. Maintaining its appearance requires detailed grooming. If a Trainer does a good job caring for it, Lurantis will have an easier time trusting them than a lazy Trainer and have gorgeous, brilliant colors.[1] In Generation VII, Solar Blade was its signature move.

A special Lurantis in Alola acts as the Totem Pokémon for Mallow's trial in Lush Jungle. This Lurantis possesses Z-Power, an energy that originates from Ultra Wormholes and takes the form of a golden, flaring aura. The reward for defeating Totem Lurantis and completing the trial is a Grassium Z.
Evolution

Lurantis evolves from Fomantis.