Orbeetle is a dual-type Bug/Psychic Pokémon introduced in Generation VIII.

It evolves from Dottler starting at level 30. It is the final form of Blipbug.

Orbeetle can Gigantamax into Gigantamax Orbeetle if it has the Gigantamax Factor.
Biology

Orbeetle is a beetle-like Pokémon with a large head that resembles the body of a ladybug. Its shell is red with seven dark blue spots and a black underside. Six of these seven spots can glow, making concentric cyan and white rings. Orbeetle's face is black and white with yellow antennae that resemble eyebrows, cyan eyes with white rings, and a red stripe above its mouth that resembles a mustache. Its actual body is much smaller and is mostly black with thin limbs, red accents on the pelvis and legs, and sharp pointed yellow feet. It has a sharp protrusion on each of its forearms near the elbow, and its hands have two claws each.

Orbeetle are famous for their large brains and high intelligence. Its large brain is proof of the immense psychic power it possesses. Orbeetle emits its psychic powers to study and observe its surroundings, including objects over six miles (ten kilometers) away. Orbeetle rarely use their wings to fly; rather, they use their psychic powers to lift their entire bodies.[citation needed]
Forms

Orbeetle has a Gigantamax form.

As Gigantamax Orbeetle, its body and brain drastically increase in size to resemble a flying saucer. Its wings disappear when in this form. The spots on its head now perpetually glow in circular cyan and white rings. Underneath Gigantamax Orbeetle's head is five half-orbs, whose colors are black at the base and gradually turn yellow at the bottom. A red ring surrounds the base of each of the half-orbs, which themselves are divided into four by the cyan rings that circle them. At the center beneath Gigantamax Orbeetle's head is a cyan half-orb connected by nine blue lines. The orb has three red clouds floating underneath it and shines a bright spotlight that can move around similar to a flying saucer. The rest of Orbeetle's body is infused into a black orb with blue lines. These lines connect to blue half circles which are connected to the head, arms, and legs.

As a result of Gigantamaxing, Orbeetle's psychic power and intelligence have become overwhelming. Should Gigantamax Orbeetle use all of its power, it can control the minds of every living being within its vicinity.

Gigantamax Orbeetle is the only known Pokémon capable of using the G-Max Move G-Max Gravitas.
Evolution

Orbeetle evolves from Dottler and is the final form of Blipbug.