Sylveon is a Fairy-type Pokémon introduced in Generation VI.

It evolves from Eevee when leveled up while knowing a Fairy-type move and having high friendship.

(Specifics may differ in past games. Refer to Game data→Evolution data for these details.)

It is one of Eevee's final forms, the others being Vaporeon, Jolteon, Flareon, Espeon, Umbreon, Leafeon, and Glaceon.
Biology

Sylveon is a quadrupedal, mammalian Pokémon covered with pale cream-colored fur with pink feet, ears, and tail. It has light blue eyes, long ears with blue interiors and thicker fur, a tiny nose, two stray tufts of fur on top of its head, and two pointed teeth which can be seen when it opens its mouth. There are two bows on its body: one at the base of its left ear and one at its neck. Each bow is pale cream with a pink center and trails a pair of ribbon-like feelers. These feelers, which can be manipulated like limbs and extended far beyond their typical length, are pale cream and end at the tips with a pink stripe, then a dark blue stripe, and then a light blue color. It has slender legs with small, three-toed paws and a fluffy, slightly curved tail.

Sylveon's ribbon-like feelers emit a soothing aura that erases any sense of hostility, enabling it to stop fights instantly. As mentioned in the Sleep Style Dex, Sylveon's soothing aura can allow any nearby Trainers to obtain a good night sleep whenever they go to sleep. When hunting, it swirls its feelers as a distraction while the aura weakens feelings of hostility in its prey, then it pounces on the victim. It will also wrap its feelers around its Trainer's arm as they walk together, which allows it to read their feelings. When a fight breaks out between Sylveon and Dragon-type Pokémon, Sylveon will bravely charge at them even if they are much bigger than itself; in Galar, this feat is told as a fairy tale.

Sylveon is the only known Pokémon that can have Pixilate as an Ability without the use of Mega Evolution, and in Generation VIII and Pokémon Scarlet and Violet, it is the only Pokémon that can have Pixilate at all.
Evolution

Sylveon evolves from Eevee.