My Opinion on Bird Box
*SPOILER ALERT*

Alright so we know that bird box is a really popular netflix original movie at the moment.  I honestly didn’t want to watch it.  I didn’t want to watch the trailer.  I basically wanted to just avoid it.  So I had this Christmas party to go to and they wanted to watch it and I had this gut feeling that I shouldn’t watch it.  I told them that I didn’t want to watch the movie and then I ended up saying its whatever since it was just me who didn’t want to watch it and I didn’t want to be seen as extra and so I just let them put on the movie and tried to give it a chance.  I honestly have mixed feelings about it.  I don’t like the way that it portrays mental illness.  Basically if you don’t already know the movie is about how these creatures (demons) are on the Earth and if you look at them you end up hurting yourself.  According to what I’ve read online to kinda understand this movie a little bit better, the demons make you see a lost loved one or your worst fear.   Now when i saw the first scene and I’m not going to describe it because its really graphic and can be triggering but it really made me feel uneasy.  I have dealt with mental illness and I’m still dealing with it and so seeing these people in the movie hurt themselves makes me really uncomfortable.  The whole movie made me kinda uneasy.  Now the part that bothers me is the guy who could see these demons and wasn’t affected the same way.  So according to him there are a few people who can see the demons and not cause harm to themselves.  He talks about how a bunch of mentally ill people at the insane asylum wanted to show him the joy of looking at the demons.  Obviously he was lying and he is actually one of the people.  This could be seen as depicting people who suffer from mental illness in a bad light.  I wanted to know why he wasn’t affected the same way.  I couldn’t really find anything but I did see a comment on a video about how the people who were mentally ill just went further into their insanity.  Now I think that this movie really does paint mental illness in a bad light and can be triggering.  Overall the movie wasn’t bad but I think I should’ve went with my gut feeling and not watch it.  It can be triggering and so I really recommend that if you get triggered by seeing things that i’ve talked about such as self harm and suicide you shouldn’t watch it.