Board Game Review: The Shining: Escape from the Overlook Hotel

Stanley Kubrick's The Shining may not be a faithful adaptation of Stephen King's novel - the author himself is a vocal detractor - but I find it to be an endlessly fascinating movie. It's one I love to watch annually during the first snowfall of the season, but revisiting the film in the context of the COVD pandemic uncovers a new layer of dread. The plot, after all, chronicles a man's descent into madness while isolated with his family.

The film's parallels to the lockdown, coupled with the resurgence of board games during this time, makes the release of The Shining: Escape from the Overlook Hotel all the more timely. Created by Jay Cormier & Sen-Foong Lim (Dungeons & Dragons: Rock Paper Wizard) and featuring graphics by Rob Lundy (Dungeon Roll), it's the second installment in The Op Games' Coded Chronicles line of escape room-style tabletop  games, following Scooby-Doo: Escape from the Haunted Mansion.

The game begins as the psychotic Jack Torrance is locked in the hotel's kitchen pantry after his wife, Wendy, knocks him out with a baseball bat. You start as Wendy in the kitchen, and their son Danny soon becomes playable in his bedroom. By investigating your surroundings, solving puzzles, and uncovering clues, you traverse through several of the Overlook Hotel's iconic locales to escape from Jack and survive the night - or die trying. The game has no board, per se; tiles featuring additional rooms are added to the map as you play.

The game lasts an estimated two hours, but there’s a stopping point  halfway through if you want to pause and return to the game at a later  time. Gameplay requires a good deal of reading, as each action you take corresponds with a journal entry with in-character explanations. Some of the entries require you to draw one of 44 clue cards or open one of 11 secret envelopes for additional information. The attention to detail is impressive, cultivating an immersive environment similar to a role-playing game albeit more stringent.

The directions are sparse considering the intricacies of the game. The mechanics of Danny's shining ability - an integral part of gameplay, as you might imagine - is not clearly explained, which can lead to frustration. Moreover, there seems to be an unfortunate misprint that comes up early on that makes the game virtually impossible to continue without skipping ahead, spoiling several details in the process. Even the provided hints, written in-character, are no help with this issue.

Single-player board games are few and far between, but that is one of the draws of the Coded Chronicles games, particularly during quarantine. Much like an actual escape room, it's beneficial to work with others to bounce ideas, but The Shining: Escape from the Overlook Hotel can also be a fun solo challenge. Hopefully The Op can to issue an update to resolve the misprint, because the game is a uniquely engaging experience that allows you to play in the world that Stanley Kubrick brought to life 40 years ago.