Basically it just felt very unfocused, and self-serving.

Why have a Captain America story where it’s all about fighting to prove yourself? Steve Rogers was so the opposite of that. He did what he had to do to help other people and he was going to do it even if they never thought he was “enough,” even if he had to do it alone, because he’s not focused on himself.

So I get that in a sense Sam is still “becoming” Captain America, so maybe he should be allowed to wrestle through the “will I ever be enough?” storyline. But like. 1) I thought we already did that with FATWS. 2) That’s not really who Sam Wilson is, as a character. He’s not constantly proving himself. He was happy and confident as a background good-guy who had his friends’ backs and got righteously-snappy but always did the right thing. You’re telling me picking up the shield reset him, as a character, and now he has to be “will I ever be enough” guy? 3) They didn’t grow him out of it. The movie just ends with him admitting he has that identity crisis…and it even calls that “pressure” of “proving yourself” a responsibility??

Way to narrow Captain America down to a symbol for one specific race, or any-race-but-one. Way to muddy what he fights for from the crystal clear “Fight For What’s Right” to “Fight For What’s Right and also Fight to Prove I’m As Awesome as the Last Guy.”

The only thing that would solidify Sam as Captain America is if he Luke-Skywalkered out of the climax. If he willingly threw away the opportunity to prove himself. If, for the whole movie, people were sneering and doubting and pushing him to see if he measured up—but in the end he doesn’t give two bright bald rat tails what they think. If, at the end, “am I enough” is so far OFF his mental radar that he doesn’t even think to do the Big Hero Thing. He just does a quieter, humbler thing even though it makes him look weak, or something.

The only thing that would solidify Sam as Captain America is if he refused to prove himself. Didn’t even think to try, because he’s so focused on helping others, not what they think of him, or even what he thinks of himself.

But they didn’t do that. Just like they didn’t have Betty come out and forgive her father and talk him down from his red-hulk rage, even though that whole compassion thing is literally her character’s superpower, it would’ve neutralized the insidiousness of the “I have to prove something” theme because it would’ve shown that “you can’t prove anything, but that’s okay because with love you don’t need to” and even though having a normal human woman risk life and limb to save everyone from a man who’s hurt her in the past by plain human faith would’ve been the perfect parallel to how she’s just a plain good mortal and so is the new super-soldier-serumless Captain America.

But no. They didn’t do that. They just blandly stirred the race-and-self-identifying pot again.
