you wanna know something that bugs me? its when people first read the Jurassic Park book after growing up just seeing the original movie saying "YO !THEY SHOULD REMAKE THIS AS A RATED R GORE FEST!!" when no. no they shouldn't.

that would completely change the story. Jurassic Park is a story about unchecked science. all the crazy deaths and people being maimed are a result of a billionaire who thinks he's smarter than god because he has money. sound familiar?

if they were to ever remake the movie, which i hope they never ever do, is focus on the consequences of that kind of power and egotism. the people dying are a direct result of hubris. the gruesome deaths shouldn't be the centerpiece. it's not some kind of 80's slasher film. if you want that go watch Roger Corman's Carnosaur or play Turok. Jurassic Park has a lot more in common with the 1954 Godzilla than it does with Jason.

it's why the movie was turned into what it is. it's the perfect encapsulations of 90's optimism. because by changing Hammond from a greedy Gordon Gekko type 80's business tycoon into a literal Santa Claus who made a big boo boo, it changes the whole story. its crazy, and i find that so fascinating. that's why that scene where Sattler giving Hammond the riot act is such a powerful scene.

Jurassic Park, the actual park, does not work. it's all show. it's a flea circus. you get hints at it throughout the movie. Nedry's willingness to steal embryos, his argument with Hammond, Samuel L. Jackson being the only other guy who stayed around, the locks on the cars not even being installed, and the triceratops being sick. there's many many hints like the exchange between Muldoon and Grant with Hammond just brushing it off as "over exaggeration," and these are just from the movie.

there's a chapter dedicated to Wong in the book that gives you some detail about the process of how the dinosaurs were made. there was no second island when this was written. every dinosaur is basically a iPhone. a new generations every month that mixes and match what Hammond wants, and he wants "realism". except these aren't dinosaurs. they're genetic golems that look dinosaurs, so there can never be any realism. just what he thinks people want to see. Wong warns that why can and should make future dinosaurs more docile after a couple of incidents. like at the beginning of the book where the guy was mauled by the raptor. Hammond will not have it. in fact he straight up threatens him that if he tries he will be fired and sued into destitution. there is so much of the book i haven't touched on.

that's what makes Jurassic Park so scary. it's not the dinosaurs, the deaths, the near misses, it's the arrogance of a billionaire being warned by everyone around him that what he is doing is wrong who thinks he's right.