"JW dinosaurs aren't real dinosaurs!"

We know. Oh boy do we know.

But the reason we keep criticizing them for their designs is because they're the face of dinosaurs in popular media. They're probably the most popular dino related franchise to date, and have already left quite a mark on people's perceptions of these ancient creatures. How many museums still have oversized scaly raptors for their dioramas?

It's one thing to say 'It's just a movie, they're movie monsters' but it becomes a whole other thing when that's all people see and then believe it is fact. And that's a problem.

'But their brand...?'

They absolutely could update their designs. The movies are about genetic manipulation. If we can have a fusion of a raptor and a Rex just for lulz, it would not be the least bit difficult to throw some feathers around. Or you know... just call the raptors something more appropriate- like what they actually are. They have complete control and they just simply choose not to, my main guess being that they're afraid of losing the awesomebro audience. Idk

They really lost out with their decision on their pterosaurs. You want scary movie ready critters that can fly and absolutely consume unsuspecting patrons to an unfortunate theme park in a single gulp? Why not Quetzlcoatlus? We're talking a kaiju level flying giraffe monster that has been theorized to nab sauropod young. Like what's not to love about that? But no. They didn't even try. Even within their universe there's no logical reason for why they do what they do.

But that's getting off tangent. The point is 25 years ago they made a call and left a mark on the public's perception. And 25 years later instead of fixing the problem after recognizing it, they've decided to double down on it. It's been 25 years, they had a chance to change things when they rebooted with World and they didn't. 25 years and we get 'these are genetically modified clones' followed immediately by 'Look! REAL dinosaurs!' That's why some of us bitch. And this is coming from a fan of the series who grew up with it.

*I* know they're just movie monsters and I still enjoy the universe, but that isn't going to stop me from pointing out that those aren't velociraptors for the hundredth time.