RANT TIME: Jurassic Park/World Edition.

As a kid growing up, I had an immense love for dinosaurs. Like, huge. This love was not just for dinosaurs, but all animals. As a kid though, I never had the pleasure to watch Jurassic Park 1, 2, or 3. I haven't seen a lot of old classic movies just simply because I wasn't huge into movies as a kid that weren't animated or cartoons. But, in elementary school, I was always picked on by a kid who was a lot bigger than me, and he had some issues, so I try not to be mean about it anymore, but he used his size and strength to intimidate anyone he could, and this kid loved dinosaurs also, EVERYTHING he ever talked about, wore on his shirts, and his backpack, books, and pencils were all dinosaurs. After having gotten in many physical alterations that he started and with the constant intimidation, I started to link dinosaurs to him(since he LOVED them, just as much as I did). This led me to suppress my own love for those magnificent creatures, hell, even despise them. I remember, after one day when he randomly shaved my head to the ground at recess for catching a ball that apparently was "his", I went home and put everything that had a dinosaur on it, every toy, figure, and book away and told my parents to put it to where I wouldn't find it in the garage. I was devastated, and this one kid made me resent something that I had loved for years. I despised dinosaurs and never gave them a second thought for over 14 years of my life.

Until, I was watching YouTube one day back in 2015, when all of a sudden, a very familiar tune started on an ad. It was 2 minutes long with a skip button, but something drew me to not press it. As I hovered my thumb over it, I started seeing these absolutely gorgeous shots of islands, and a theme park, then Chris Pratt, and then all of a sudden this huge roar played and I was looking at the eye of the Indominous Rex.

By now, the grudge had worn off and I was just left sitting in awe by the way this movie looked. I knew I had to see it the opening night. So the long wait for that summer started and I could not bare it. I swear the day that we went to go see it, one hour felt like six. I was so pumped to see this movie I couldn't stand it.

Needless to say, I am completely happy with the way it turned out. This movie kickstarted me back into loving dinosaurs again. As a kid, before the incident, I could name almost any skeleton or skull that I saw correctly, but having had such a huge gap, I was extremely rusty. However, I owe my re-invigoration of my love of dinos to Jurassic World.

You can say whatever you want about my first film in the series being Jurassic world. I've heard it before. I've been called several names and been subjected to countless amounts of scrutiny because of it, but why does it matter when someone gets into a series? As long as they get into the series should be all that matters.

I'm not done singing the praises of the entire series just yet, as of now, I have reached all four movies for the 13th time within two years. Each and every time, whenever the main theme plays with those gorgeous sweeping views of the herds of dinosaurs running around, or whenever they show the main gate, I legitimately start crying. Everything from the soundtrack in this series to the heart and effort they put in to suspend your reality and make you believe and wish that an actual Jurassic park or world was real is absolutely breathtaking. I remember in the theater I was in, whenever Rexy was shown fighting the Indominous, every single person in the audience cheered. Do you know what it's like to see 40 and 50 year old men and women yell at the top of their lungs in pure joy and excitement at a CGI dinosaur? It's honestly amazing. And then they picked up their children and they were also in utter shock and awe because they got to see a T-Rex. Even though I hadn't seen the originals, I knew that that T-Rex was Rexy and I couldn't help myself but to also join in in the celebrating.

There is something astonishing about these movies that I cannot describe, but have now completely experienced. The amount of people who regard these movies as their all time favorites and people who hold them so dear is astounding that truthfully, even though dinosaurs are extinct, they can still bring people together so easily. I hate myself for missing out on something that I genuinely loved for so long, just because someone else ruined it (by association). I missed out on one of the greatest movie series of all time and plenty of fascinating creature for so long, and I hate myself for it. But maybe that's why I also hold the series so close to my heart now. Hell, I've even thought about changing my major and stopping medical school and becoming a paleontologist.

I'm sorry if I start posting more Jurassic Park/World stuff from now on, but please understand that this series is just as precious to me as the Alien series is, if not more important since I have an even deeper emotional connection with the Jurassic Park/World series.