Pet Peeve: poorly written “Strong women”

Grumpy rant...

Men pretending to try to write “strong women” who are so implausible that they are eye-rollingly ridiculous.

1) the dangerously underweight woman who is so “badass” that she can take out 8 highly trained men every one of whom has a single thigh larger than her entire mass.

2) 5′3″ 110lb woman who with a single punch has any effect (much less knocks down) a 6′2″ 300lb muscular man.

3) 5′3″ 110lb woman who gets punched in the face by a 6′2″ 300lb muscular man and pops right back up.

4) any size/fitness woman who shows her “strength” by being obnoxious and insulting to everyone she meets and they all chuckle saying how tough/badass she is.

5) any size/fitness woman who shows her “strength” by being amazingly better than everyone at *everything* and/or out “man” ing all the men.

For the first three, these just ignore plain physics. No amount of training overcomes this lack of mass. For the other 2 it just makes her annoying and implausible.

This doesn’t mean that a strong woman can’t overcome this in other ways.

A larger opponent  with large muscles will always have a mass advantage if they get a hit in (whether the smaller opponent is female or male), but the smaller, leaner opponent will have a speed and flexibility advantage. Show her using these advantages.

Physically, for most women, her power is in her legs, so using flexibility, get low and kick to the knee or goolies is a good bet.

And for the proving herself through insults or magically being better than everyone at everything (even their specialty) - don’t.

Not knowing things is awesome because it’s a chance to mine the person who does to learn something new! Also, acknowledging someone else’s strength is how you build allies.

Wonder Woman was a good example but also not great for a “normal” human as she had the magic super hero factor (which makes her having the inhuman strength and skill that can defy physics for a normal mortal).

Emily Prentiss’s first introduction in Criminal Minds was done very well. She had skills that she brought definitely but was also learning this new role. It was done very well. Then she left and when they brought her back they made her the super spy that could do anything and knew everything and ruined it.

Riley in MacGyver is generally good - she has her strengths (computers) is shown learning other skills - she’s a bit obnoxious, but it’s mostly with Jack with a history giving a reason for it. The one where she has to fight the man when him and another take over the building - she struggles but uses her strengths - wraps her legs around his head and arm which she’s twisting the fingers. This scene was very well done.

Bad examples include: Natasha Romanov, Juliet Higgins, Samantha Cage, Shuri (to be fair sorta magic of the tech but after establishing Tony as a genius they act like he’s a moron compared to her instead of her loving his work and wanting to build on it which would have been awesome), Sam Carter, JJ (when she came back in Criminal minds).

Yes, today I got to the introduction of Samantha Cage in MacGyver and hated it.

Thankfully I have a few days off now to relax and hopefully write and clean my house. Tomorrow is Canada Day and then I took a couple of days holiday so I’m off until next Monday!

End grumpy rant.