No because, I would do EVERYTHING for Hal Jordan. I'm a down-bad, obsessive, possessive FREAK for Hal.

I love him more than anyone else could ever know.

Like.. Hal motherfucking Jordan, I'm so in shock how despite him being one of the most popular green lanterns— I barely see people whose favorite lantern is.. him.

I already told you I'm a freak, so I'll rant. I'm passionate about Hal, he's one of my favorites, and I absolutely cannot let the people who check my account NOT know how much I love him.

He has so many feats and achievements it's genuinely crazy. But not just feats, but moments that make him feel so goddamn human.

Hal Jordan, who went against the guardian's orders just to stop corruption in the world alongside Green Arrow. Hal Jordan, the middle child of his family who just wanted his father to be proud of him for once. Hal Jordan, who stands for justice and won't hesitate to speak his mind when something is wrong. Hal Jordan, the type of person to do something as long as he believes it's right, and will do it alone if he has to.

Look I mean, everyone loves Green Lantern, but not a lot know about Hal Jordan. Ouch, that's corny to say but I just want to get it out there.

Hal is pure will incarnate, he'd rather get thrown out than quit, he's reckless, stubborn, he'll keep going no matter what.

Hal is just that one man you can count on no matter what because he's crazy! (Blew himself in like a supernova way to destroy WarWorld) he's fearless because he's too stupid to see the danger, he's an idiot, but he's so incredibly brave to still continue with that stupid fearlessness just to do the right thing.

He's cocky, rightfully so. The ring has a safety feature, hell a RULE that PREVENTS the user from harming themselves. But Hal Jordan? He has so much fucking willpower, he gets past that rule to prove a damn point. You can do anything, as long as you have the will to do it.

He's confident, he even says, "And let's face it, who has more of that than me?" While referring to willpower. He knows what he's capable of and damn right he should know it!

A lot call him boring but he's so interesting, cause who else would charge straight into battle without thinking about the consequences and focused on just doing instead?

He's an act first, think later and that's so much more refreshing than the mass-produced characters who value thinking first over acting. Thinking first is no bad thing, but I need more recklessness in my life.

I need someone who rushes straight into battle, expecting to win, and actually winning. That someone, is Hal Jordan.

Gods, this is just the tip of the iceberg, I'd rant so much more but at that point I wouldn't be a freak anymore but a delusional nerd.

And that's also why I'm a fanfiction writer, who writes X Readers. Face it, why the hell would I want MY MAN to be in love with someone else?

Everyone should toughen up their game, I read X readers because I love Hal too fucking much it physically makes me yell every time he's shipped with someone else.

I'm not bloody embarrassed of stating this, hell, I'm proud of it. #xreadersforlife.

All jokes aside, I fucking love Hal Jordan.