// Long post:

The fact that the Ra's al Ghul tag is always filled with anything but Ra's al Ghul content drives me nuts.

I get into the tag, hoping to see someone else who enjoys Ra's. I hope to see discussions of his lore, comic panels, fun facts, or at the very least ship posts about him and someone else.

Instead, and somehow, it's always Ra's' hate OR hate towards Bruce's love interests and/or children.

I can't freaking believe the Ra's al Ghul tag is filled with Selina Kyle hate. This is exhausting. Ra's is NOT his children and even less his children ships. I don't care how annoyed you're that your ship hasn't gotten content or whatever, it literally has NOTHING to do with Ra's so why the hell would you tag him!?

Ra's is his own character. He's a wonderful character with a complex history of loss, mourning and love for mother earth. He has felt the pain of death too many times and yet stays decided to save mother nature. He's not some puppet in the background you can always pull as some "point" regarding ships that don't involve him!

Ra's has so many love interests on his own and a handful more given to him by fandom. People could get invested on that rather than constantly reducing Ra's to some old guy with a ship shirt that doesn't even add or lessen anything. How is his support a reason for a ship to be canon anyway? Bruce literally DOESN'T care and never will, and if you want to be angry at Bruce always marrying the same woman then... Idk, write fanfic?

It's just so tiring. 9 out of 10 posts in the Ra's' tag have nothing to do with him. I actually smile when I see stuff such as Danny Phantom crossovers because at least in those Ra's gets to be a villain of his own. I smile at Miraculous LB prompts because it's nice to see Ra's being on his own as a villain. I very much prefer those posts in the tag rather than posts that have NOTHING to do with him.

And this even isn't ship hate because I'm a non canon shipper and couldn't care less what people ship. But it does annoy me to have a character's tag spammed with content that doesn't involve the character in any sense. Imagine if I kept tagging Cassie in KonTim posts! It would be very annoying, wouldn't it? Well, that's what this fandom does and I don't understand why! The lack of manners here and in Twitter it's crazy, it's like people are trying to be annoying rather than appeal to the public. And then people wonder why fandoms are so violent.

And it's not only a problem here I swear every DC character and ship tag I follow is taken over by haters. Constant spam that either doesn't involve the character at all or straight up hate towards the character/ship. Everyday I block at least ten accounts. Everyday.

I just... I just wished there were genuine Ra's' enjoyers out there and not fake fans who are only using Ra's to prop up some of his children and their ships. I wished I would meet someone who was like "Hey I'm a big fan of Slade Wilson/Ra's al Ghul!" because I would love to hear their thoughts on an actual Ra's' ship and what it means. I want to see more of Ra's, not his children!

And I know this post won't change anything. I know fandom very well and I'm aware Ra's is cursed to always be used as a puppet, hell, DC actually killed him just to give all his elements to one of his children (and make said child ooc anyway). Ra's will never escape from this, not in canon nor in fandom, and it saddens me because he's so much more than people think he is! Ra's could be as big as Lex Luthor, Joker, or Slade Wilson yet no one will let him.

In the end, nothing will change. Ra's is a forgotten, used character condemned to be torn apart to prop up his children. Never a man of his own, never allowed to be free, never happy. And yet I'm still here, hoping and waiting for the day he will fly again.