MY OPINION, DONT LIKE, DONT READ.

sorry to rant, but I hate when fanfictions or headcannons make the MCU's Peter Parker a baby. Like they make him super anxious or "precious". They act like he isn't sassy or snarky at all. They make him weak. There's nothing wrong with having moments of weakness, but they make his whole character a precious baby who stutters every other sentence. I often see this in Irondad and Spiderson fics. Where Peter is super nervous around Tony. But in the movies he's not.

In Civil War, when he meets Tony for the first time he's only nervous about what Tony will do if he knows he's Spider-Man. Even in the fight, hes not nervous. Yeah, he's chatty but he's not nervous. He's chatty in all his fights. In all of Peter's MCU movies he's chatty, but that doesn't make him nervous. He's sassy and sarcastic and cracks jokes all the time. He talks back to Tony and the Avengers. He's not afraid to make comments or to suggest a plan of action to the Avengers.

In the fanfictions, Peter is nervous around Happy and doesn't want to bother him. But in the movies Peter banters and jokes with Happy and isn't afraid to annoy him.

I also see a lot of fanfictions where Peter is only sassy in the spider-man mask and is nervous when he is "just Peter Parker" But that's not true, he is sassy to everyone, all the time, no matter what.

Also, when Flash bullies Peter, fanfictions take that excuse and run with it. They make Peter seem weak for having a bully, when he's not. Peter knows damn well that he could punch Flash and Flash wouldn't mess with him again, he just chooses not to. Peter's not weak for it, he's just not choosing violence.

I just think you do a huge disservice to his character if you just make Peter Parker an obnoxiously anxious teenager. Of course, I think making Peter have anxiety as a personality trait is fine, good even. But when you make it his whole personality is when I see a problem with it.

At the core of it, Peter is a strong, polite, smart, sassy, sarcastic, honest, hardworking teenager who sacrifices way more than he should for the good of others. He talks back to anyone and everyone. He's not weak or precious or a baby.

(Obviously, I know that some fics make characters ooc for the purpose of the fic, but this is a wide spread thing. I can barely find fics where Peter is sassy. Maybe I'm looking in the wrong tags)