I really hope that the Clayface movie gets the Superman movie treatment leading up to its release. James Gunn seems to be really happy with it via interviews and praise of Mike Flanagan's work and I really really really hope that when it gets closer and closer to the release and during the filming, it has the same advertisement treatment to the public and not swept under the rug while other projects are being filmed as well. I wanna see the silly stupid skits of the cast being silly even though it's going to be a body horror buffet for the effects artists and Tom Rhys Harries to deal with. I'm extremely biased when it comes to anything Clayface related and I'm very excited, but it most likely won't get the Superman treatment because people don't seem to care that much (which, how could they, this is gonna be so cool for the dcu and James Gunn era), but I'm gambling on James Gunn pulling strings and advertising it like crazy. I NEED IT.

I can just tell with a stacked above the line crew and having Matt Reeves on the project and Mike Flanagan's influence on the project and James driving it home that it's Mike's story and wants to be true to that, even though he isn't on the project as a writer. It's going to be an awesome movie and be a staple for Clayface as a character. I love that he's being revitalized as a Batman rogue in some animated shows and in comics, and his movie is going to officially make him one of the first Batman villains in James Gunn DCU. I'm so so excited, and with the Penguin's Micheal Marino and his company working on the special makeup effects for the movie is amazing. His work in that show looks immaculate and just his prosthetic work alone is fascinating. The fact that it's supposed to be like The Fly and The Substance based on the level of body horror alone is going to be amazing on its own. Even if I don't like the movie, even though I'm Clayface's #1 fan, I'm going to love the effects in the movie. I love the use of practical effects in movies, ESPECIALLY horror movies. It's so fun to see how it's all made and used on set and the final product on the screen.

I'm constantly checking articles for the movie to see if anyone else was cast, if anything was shared by Gunn himself about the movie, and to see if anyone else was brought onto the project. While the movie is set to start filming October this year and release September 2026, I'm in a constant state of hyper vigilance whenever anything is released or even remotely related to it. I'm very excited if you can't tell.