Kinda ironic that Tommy is a speedster, but is constantly left behind by the people around him (even by Marvel Comics itself)

Like, everyone around him has lifes of their own, his biological parents live separately and it seems like neither of them want Tommy to be actively in their lives.

Even though he calls Wanda "mom" or Billy "brother," neither of them are really family to him, Wanda has her life and her problems, she doesn't act like a mother to him, not even like a mentor, their relationship is good enough but it's not deep.

And even though Billy was the one who supported the theory that the two of them are Wanda's reincarnated twins, after revealing the truth, he has his own things to focus on, Billy has loving biological parents and two real brothers, plus the best boyfriend in the universe, he even goes to space and gets married.

The best thing that Tommy had was the Young Avengers, and I adore them, but I also can't deny that Kate used him to later stay with Eli, and later she uses him again when she is angry at Noh-Varr, and after Children's Crusade when the Young Avengers split up, what Tommy wanted most was for them to stay together.

And what happens when a new Young Avengers line-up begins to form? Tommy is "kidnapped" 💀 My dude is literally left out of the whole adventure that he wanted the most, and he didn't really form any bond with any of the new members other than David.

I ask a sincere question, what friends does Tommy have? Lmaooo, seriously 😭 because David was the only one from what I remember and after they date for a while they break up off the page.

Tommy has never had a stable enough relationship, and everyone he knows has friends or other superhero teams more important than him, Tommy has only been in the Young Avengers and his appearances are so few and short that it's almost as if he's not there.

And since Marvel hates giving my boy time we literally never have a clue what's going on in his head, but let me doubt that after being labeled as the "sociopath" problem boy with no feelings, it literally won't affect him at all 💀 That facade he puts up is literally a defense mechanism, we've seen his real opinions a few times and he's not like that, he does care about his friends, he may not think about things much but when his life is lonely and the world is too slow I think it is impossible to ignore, idk.

I know it's a lot of text but I'm on the path to read all the comics in which Tommy appears, bc I never thought he would interest me so much but he became my favorite character and now I can't stand how Marvel always gives him leftovers.

And maybe what I said doesn't bother him as a character, or in the future my opinion will be proven wrong, but if Marvel never shows us anything about him, all I have to deduce what's going on in his life is the miserable information they give us.