Bird Box:

Alright, guys. I know not many appreciated nor liked Netflix Bird Box, but I wish to make a little bit of a post here from something that I as well as others have noticed off to the side no one else really took into thought. Bird box is NOT another 'A Quiet Place'. Yes, I will admit that it plays on your senses, and yes there are creatures, but that doesn't give a movie what it needs. All it does is jump out and scare you. This is a psychological horror film, not a jumpscare galore. The set up was beautiful, starting with women who had the world in the back of their minds and survivial not even a thought that was there. The progression from uneventful to switching back from past and present made the story all about nail biting and 'oh, what will happen next'. That being said, this was not a film to make you jump or scream, this was a film to mess with your mind and make you feel like absolute shit throughout it. Trigger warnings galore mixed in with unease, holy shit it'll do a number. This film wasn't some jumpscare film to have you curling up to your friend or significant other, this was a film to get you thinking and het you into the mood of what the story beholds.

If you made it this far, congrats, I applaud you. My true point: This is a very LOVECRAFTIAN story. The mental breakdowns and effects all relate and seem to be almost pulled out of the mind of H.P. Lovecraft. The intrusion of the mind is very reminiscent of Cthulhu and the mythos, how he swept up and took over actors, artist, etc., driving their minds down the shitter and his 'cult' becoming the crazies within the film. The unseen monster that most of you oh so detested attributed from the story 'The Dunwich Horror', also by H.P. Lovecraft. All of those who weren't effected by the sight attribute to a generic belief that goes through any Science Fiction or Horro buffs mind. 'ARE THE BLIND AFFECTED BY THE UNSEEN MONSTERS!?' They played it well and I would have to give this move a thumbs up for any Lovecraft reader who finds anything that follows his style and finds it pleasing to see this.

Rant over, have a good day!