I finished the book The Shining and made the grave mistake of immediately watching the movie version(which I had somehow avoided until today). I should've waited at least a few months to watch the movie,because the book was wayyy too fresh in my mind to properly enjoy it

As for the book. The characters felt real,at times too real. Let me tell you,I knew people like Jack. Trying to be good but ultimately hurting their family more than they probably wanted. The alcoholism, the withdrawals from it, the way it calls out to him? seen it too in others, especially the more abusive parents.

I don't want to go too deep into it,but I want to tell you that it felt real. That I've heard those words Jack spoke time and again to his family only to hurt them later.

His descent into madness was also great. The Overlook took all of his flaws and amplified them to the point that all his better characteristics got drowned out and then killed off entirely.

The movie version of Jack was already a deranged person from the start. It was less of a descent into madness and more of an unmasking and showing his true nature. He feels different to his book version in that aspect. The Overlook just gently pushed him in the right direction while in the book the hotel had to show him quite a lot of things before he could be ordered to do what it wanted.

Wendy too felt like a mother doing her best. Though I do have to say that the movie version felt more realistic to how someone in such an abusive relationship would act. In the end,both were actually well made

Danny was a five year old. What is a five year old supposed to do? I think maybe the visions from the book would've been a bit of a better fit at times, or maybe a mix between them and the bloody hallway would've made it even better for the movie, but that is really just me nitpicking. In the book his visions were scarier. They showed what was about to happen but with just enough information to not know entirely what will actually happen. It reminded me of Hamlet. The book and Hamlet both are tragedies and I remember once reading about how a tragedy can be made even more impactful when the audience/reader and at least one character knows what's going to happen and but every attempt at trying to avoid their fate brings them closer to it. Danny knew what was going to happen,he tried his best to avoid it and well,he was 5,he couldn't do much which makes it so much more tragic when it happens.

Overall, I enjoyed the book greatly and should've waited with the movie. The movie is well crafted,but has to be seen as a different story with similar elements.

The movie is a horror story,while the book is a tragedy