Worst ships in the X-Men will always be Emma Frost x Scott Summers, Rogue x Gambit and Storm x T’Challa.

They’re interesting for how terrible they are and how damaging to the characters which makes good stories but the ship fans make it exhausting because they advocate to the point of abusing other people for having different opinions on the characters and what it means to the stories. No, Emma doesn’t make Scott a better man, she actively makes him worse which is great plot wise in showing the complexity in the characters and making them relatable. Emma legit used her abilities and abused her power of being his “therapist” after Jean to get into his pants. That’s not two people meant for each other, they’re not deeply in love they are two troubled people using each other to get over their own insecurities/failings and heartbreak so why are you portraying it as some sort of adorable love story? Emma isn’t devoted to him she just has a thing for him because he’s the good boy she wants to taint and that’s great to read so long as you can comprehend the story and not be weird and make them soulmates when even the writing shows they aren’t and that’s not the point of the ship.

Romy is a disaster and that’s great or it was when it was shown to be messy and destructive, when they were true to their selves. They weren’t meant to last, they’ll always be childish and disrespectful together because that’s literally the point but again the ship fans had to make it weird and now they’re in a void of nothingness unless they’re together 24/7 and acting like horny teenagers when they’re in their late 30’s and should be fully competent and over it all by now, having fun and enjoying company of people they genuinely like to be around.

T’Challa made Storm so miserable and tried to isolate her from who she was and the people who loved her. She was nothing but a prize to him and I’m glad the newer comics have him recognise his treatment of her. It’s human, people behave that way, great storytelling but they’re not the happy married couple their fans jump on other people about.

The ships were great for their time, gritty and troublesome. Making them wholesome wouldn’t and hasn’t ever worked. in 616 making them happy and in love doesn’t make any sense and removed all the hard work the individual characters did to get themselves into a better place, growing up and realising they are better being friends/teammates and being true to themselves. I hope Emma/Scott and T’Challa/Storm don’t fall into the Romy trap the way Rogue and Gambit have, it’s so disappointing to see the way their characters have become nothing from the potential they had just because of a ship and stans who don’t actually understand who the characters are or the way relationships are displayed in comics that are constantly revolving like doors due to different writers/editors and just to make something new and interesting. Rogue and Gambit have never been so boring and pathetic as they are since being married and in a relationship again since they broke up in the 2000’s and it seems to be a common theme in recent writing to keep recycling old nonsensical ships rather than giving fresh ideas a go for fear of how the fans behave. There are so many good characters who are constantly sidelined for the same old stories and ships for these characters that could have been really interesting aren’t shown or have any effort put into them because of fan behaviour. A lot of comic fans now seem more obsessed with ships than genuinely well written stories and it’s pretty shameful to the fandom how they’re treating other fans and creators.