Hi, I know that this isn't really the kind of stuff I post about, but the Superman movie is coming out this week, and I wanted to tell people, or at least rant about:

What the Superman Crest means to me.

And some back story, I have loved Superman and comics in general since I was a little kid. I think at one point I had a superman back pack, as a girl in elementary school, I received some flak for that. The point is that these stories didn't just help me through some hard times they really cemented my morals. Like people are people no matter where they were born. Just because it's easy doesn't mean it's right. Etc.

Superman was an alien from another planet who was launched to earth as a baby during its destruction. He became a hero later in life and dedicated his life to protecting the people of earth. And by extension, his home. Where he was raised. He faces countless villains almost nearly dying in the process and asks for nothing. Not a position of power, not money or fame, not even respect or gratitude.

The reason this particular hero stands out to me is because of what he represents.

The real American dream.

Not nationalism that fails to see any flaws and actively stomps out truth. But real moral values, grit, and determination.

The crest itself represents a lot of things to me. It symbolizes bravery, strength, empathy, compassion, sacrifice, heroism, and above all, hope. And when I think of these things, I can't help thinking about people. Police officers who stand up to corruption within their districts. Fire fighters who ruch into burning buildings to save lives. Veterans who served this country. Nurses and doctors who put everything they have into saving and improving lives. People who run and work in soup kitchens. Who helps the homeless. People who are standing up to ICE agents.

But overall, it's not these small-minded nationalist beliefs. It's what America should stand for. What real Americans stand for. Welcoming people from different parts of earth to make this land their home. And understanding different cultures while respecting them.

That is what the Superman crest means to me.

Thanks for coming to my Ted talk.