I just saw thunderbolts and I have many thoughts

Spoilers ahead ‼️‼️‼️

1. Taskmaster dying was so pointless and honestly kind of disgusting. I tried seeing if it’s was an actor issue but apparently the writers took her out to show that “the stakes are high and anyone can die” which is a convoluted way to say nothing because we know none of the other team members are dying through cast leaks and plot armor. It rubs me the wrong way that a movie centered around character redemption threw out the girl who went through the same mercenary pain as them and got not sufficing redemption in black widow or thunderbolts. Rip Taskmaster you are special to me and I would never have done that to you. We lost a girlie today 💔

2. I liked Ghost alot in the ant man movies and honestly forgot as her character became quickly irrelevant because let’s be real ant man is no one’s favorite series. She didn’t do much in this movie, no one seemed to really connect with her and holy shit what was that bulky ahh suit 😭 I’d kill to have the white suit back from her first appearance, that was so cool. Also every move she made got fucking countered immediately. If your character can be countered by a jbl speaker blaring fetty wap then maybe she’s not a great addition to the team.

3. I thought the Bob/Yelena/Walker camaraderie was pretty solid, they all had good banter and seemed to genuinely care about each other. I don’t want to glaze Walker but I liked seeing the small ways he showed affection like shifting from calling him Bob to Bobby, and even picking the fruit for Yelena and Ghost. Hell he even took that one hit for Bucky and hauled his ass back to the elevator. I’m not sure why he was suddenly a team player but it was nice to see. That being said we lacked a whole group connection, obviously Walker cared for Ghost but Ghost didn’t seem to connect with anyone else, nor did Bucky really talk past his circle of Walker, or Alexei with his circle of Yelena. I would have liked to see a better full team moment like the Avengers shawarma scene. Everyone was pretty solid by themselves but I don’t really think of them as a group, just people who have their person if that makes sense.

4. I was going to complain that Bucky wasn’t in the movie enough because he’s my favorite and I saw it just to see him on the big screen. I was originally worried that he was going to be put through mcu hell again after his redemption in tfatws but I honestly think it was smart to distance himself from the thunderbolts team. It gives everyone else a chance in the spotlight because Bucky has already overcome his trauma and serves as a sign that they can too. I always kept him in mind during the void episodes knowing that reliving hydra must have been awful, but he’s at a point right now where he was able to blow it off and even joke to the others by remarking sarcastically that his past was great. I love seeing him in a place of healing <3 That being said I know my boy is struggling being in a team where 2 people are a stark reminder of Steve rogers. Like If I was in a team where two people looked like my dead boyfriend id throw hands every second, walker and alexei I would be out for blood 💀 Not to mention Sam who is very much captain American but it probably still hurts Bucky to see that red white and blue even when the proper person displays it.

5. You are telling me there is arguing in my sambucky household?? Marvel don’t piss me off. My one little Sam Wilson mention is Bucky arguing with him about some avengers bullshit?? Marvel I am going to run these ones. I was expecting a little call at the end like “honey you won’t believe the day I’ve had” NOT A DIVORCE.

6. Sentry was a bit confusing, he felt like a weird character to add in the timeline right now in that way that he’s pretty similar to Adam Warlock. He felt like a weird combination of Warlock x Homelander if that makes sense lol. Towards the end the movie started to feel like The Boys lmao, I thought Valentina was about to become the head of Vought and had to remember what universe we were in. Don’t get me wrong I love Bob and I part of me hates that I’m buying into the “lol so random XD name” kind of character but he was pretty chill, I know my boy is gonna love Johnny Storm just wait.

7. Where is Yelena’s Guinea pig?? I was hoping to see him in the back of the tower with a fancy set up but alas… Outside of showing the fact that Yelena doesn’t lack humanity through her rescuing if it, it is also a symbol of what they’ve all been through as Guinea pigs are commonly test subjects. I know it’s right on the nose but I think it’s still a nice touch

8. The end credit “avengers” suits were so fucking ugly ima be real 💀 Bucky what are u wearing go find a Henley

9. Fight could have been over in ten minutes if Walker and Bob kissed 🤷‍♂️ Fellas is it gay to slam a man against a wall and stare lovingly into his eyes?? Walker, first Lemar and now this? Buddy I cant defend you. Also you can’t tell me Bob and Yelena wouldn’t be the most fire lavender couple you’ve ever seen. If u want Bob u gotta go through Yelena and Walker, that’s their bbg 😤