Bird Box

Hi, everyone!

If you were on internet in these last days, you might see a lot of Bird Box memes or advertisements, the newest Netflix's movie. It divided internet in two: the people that loved it and the people that hated it. Because of this, I decided watching it and see if, at first place, it really was good or it was a "hoax".

So, let's get your popcorn and your soda and prepare yourself to know if it really worth or not.

Synopsis (Escritor ao Vento)

Malorie Hayes (Sandra Bullock) is a artist that is passing on non-wanted pregnancy. Her sister, Jessica Hayes (Sarah Paulson), has taken her for routine medical consultation when, in the hospital, a woman begins biting her head on the wall, deadly injure yourself.

Out there, they have found a town in complete chaos because of  monsters that, to be seen by people, make them want to die. By luck, Malorie hasn't seen these beings and, because of this, she sees yourself in a post-apocalyptic world fighting struggling to survive.

Review

Right at the beginning the movie shows for us how it's going to be: distressing. But it is good because let you aware for details. It already prepares you for hunt for details — details that are very important to understand the movie.

SPOILER ALERT!

The movie begins with Malorie and her two children running away by the river looking for survivor community, the unique that she found on the radio after five years searching in. Then, the movie comes back to the past to explain how it arrives in that point and it is when we have known about "beings" and about people that can be no bandage, zombies with a mission of make other people to see "beings" and kill themselves.

As I have told you, the movie, since the begging, is distressing because we never see the "beings" and the story is telling by the leading lady, in the other words, we only see what she sees as well. We never know what is front of us and it lets everything despairing.

Analyzing it deeply, we will find a big methafore that shows for us, with a single mode, what depression illness is, among other elements.

Methafors

The first of one told us that "beings" stand for depression illness. It is confirmed by the fact that the house where leading lady were refugee is surrounded by people that is passing on hard life moments — she is a example thanks to her non-wanted pregnancy.

The children of her, here, stand for hope and it is confirmed by the fact that all the time she tries saving them, even though they make wrong choices, as scene where little girl almost take off her bandaged.

There are birds too she carries and they are used as an alert for "beings" presence. In this point, according to website Vix (click on here to go to original source, in Portuguese), they stand for memories that should be carried on. I disagree and I argue they are used exactly as a "alarm": the birds are a kind of warning that something is not right; it is necessary looking for help — a doctor, for example.

The own end, when as the leading lady as children arrived to school for the blind people, has a why: the blind have learned dealing with depression illness of a different form.

These are "signals" are already surrounded internet. I, however, have gone besides and I have found much more things in "Bird Box".

For we begin our talk, I have certainty that entire Bird Box movie is a big methafor, and not only the "beings", for depression illness. Think about it: people are suffering depression illness have challenge of prove all the time that they are ill — and they are not pretending, as I have listened some "human beings" said. The mainly point of leading lady is survivor, a ludical form — and literal — to show for everyone that she is suffering and suffering a lot.
