The Shining ~ Book Review.

Hello people. How are you? How is life? I have been working on a life update blog and that has taken up a lot of my time. I just can’t seem to find the right words to write the blog and this thing will take time so it will be delayed as it’s delaying my blogs too. I am reading books and studying and writing blogs, I will also be creating a schedule for my blogs. I might post 3 times a week but…

I read this book last year but I didn’t get the time to write this review until now, also this book bored me to death so it took me some time to revive. So I hope you enjoy it!

This book was a hell of a lot of trouble for me. It took me 3 months to finish it and also put me in a slump. I entered this book with expectations as high as Mount Everest. At first, I thought it was creepy and a bit scary but originally it wasn’t. The biggest problem of this book was Jack’s thoughts, the character has so many thoughts and so many paragraphs full of the same thoughts again and again. It was exhausting for me!

People said this book is scary but honestly this book just turned out to be about a drunk abusive father who hurt his son restraining himself from alcohol in a confined hotel where some spooky things happen that made him lose his mind and try to “discipline” his son and wife.
If you desire a summary there you have it.

I am not saying that Domestic Violence isn’t scary, it is! Violence is scary and a really dangerous thing that can scar the victim for life but that is the only thing scary here unless you count the Topiaries coming to life like zombies that not only felt kiddish but also weird.

This book and Stephen King did not live up to my expectations at all. I expected a better storyline with hardcore horror in it (THIS IS A STEPHEN KING BOOK!)

The only good thing about this book was the ending (97 pages) aka the climax, which was satisfying and interesting but that was the only good part I found in this book. I gave this book 3 stars out of respect for Stephen King, if it wasn’t for him this would be a 1.5 star.

Well, here is my rant about this book. I am so done with this book. I don’t know if I will read Stephen King again or not. It depends on how I feel later on.

So I use the CAWPILE created by Book Roast (A BookTuber) to give accurate ratings that are not based on my feelings solely.

Below I will be giving you the full form of CAWPILE with the ranking I gave each of the letters.

Character: 5.2 stars.

Atmosphere: 7.6 stars.

Writing: 6.7 stars.

Plot: 7.1 stars.

Intrigue: 4.1 stars.

Logic: 7.6 stars.

Enjoyment: 4 stars.

The average of all these is 6.04 stars which on the 5-star rating scale is 3.5 stars.

So this is it. That’s it for today. I hope you enjoyed my book review and I am trying to be regular but it might take some time. So let’s hope for the best!