Do You Close Your Eyes—And Turn Away From This Door?

In front of you is a door. Its shadow hovers menacingly, disconnected from any wall—if you’re even able to find one within sight. A pitch-black bulb is the only source of light in the vicinity. The monochrome world around you is both comforting and unsettling. Do you dare step through the door and enter the game world of OMORI? Or does your cowardice prohibit you from continuing? For those of you who are sensitive to flashing images and also those of you who are likely to be influenced by dark and deliberately frightening material, I’d strongly advise against continuing, or at least I’d recommend doing more in-depth research before you do so. If, on the other hand, you’re intrigued by these descriptions, there is plenty to uncover behind its black-and-white surface.

Welcome to WHITE SPACE…

This video is the first impression you can gain of what you’ll experience when playing OMORI. Released in 2014, this promotional video is incredible at capturing the tone and atmosphere of a game that would be in development for the next 6 years. Released on Christmas Day in 2020, the game instantly became an indie darling within the psychological horror genre of games. Let’s travel into the past, take a deeper look at this short video, and uncover the seeds that would sprout into this well-loved and cared-for plant.

The video sets the stage for a multifaceted experience. Masterfully intertwining both monochrome imagery and oversaturated colors, it is also capable of simply reassuring you—yet there’s always something niggling in the back of your mind. (There’s someone behind you.) You turn around. There’s no-one there. Solitude and companionship both have their pros and cons. What do you do when your birthday cake keeps getting more and more candles, but there’s no one around to watch them get blown out?

No wish is made. Everything burns down.

Colors and people simultaneously enter your vision. They threaten to overwhelm you—you’re unused to this level of exposure—to other people this colorful. To this level of saturation. Walking and wandering around, your feet clad only in long, dark socks—it all seems less burdensome when there are others with you. But it’s been so long since you’ve seen anyone else, and you’re getting closer to drowning; the stimulation is nearly intolerable to your senses.

Can you keep your head above the water?

There is one last method to stay safe—one last resort. The ability to close your eyes seems to be unable to be taken away from you. However, the option to simply look away might be the least appealing of all. Your eyes are glued open, unable to stray away from the events unfolding on the screen in front of you. Despite potentially jeopardizing your sleep, inducing headaches, making you question everything you know about yourself… it is impossible to look away. The seeds cultivated by OMOCAT have blossomed into a beautiful bouquet—mixing sunflowers, lilies, tulips, and even cacti. This game is undoubtedly worth a playthrough for any horror lover.

Do you dare leave your safe bubble—and enter the door?