Birdbox Review:

I watched Birdbox yesterday. Like everyone else, I had highly anticipated its release; both because of the movie’s trailer and because of the fact it stars Trevante Rhodes. Here’s my baby critic review.
Wins: The overall idea of this movie and the introduction of a different horror concept, in comparison to concepts that have been overly exploited, is what kept me engaged in the whole 2 hours of this movie. The actors give an intriguing performance; in consideration of what they’re given. Birdbox is scary in the most unpredictable ways—relying heavily on what we can’t see and playing on our fears of the unknown.
Sins: The plot, even with its great central conflict, is watery and ultimately falls flat under the rushed sequence of events. The relationship between Sandra Bullocks characters, Majorie, and Trevante Rhodes character, Tom, has little to no development from the time that they meet until they “fall in love”,despite the fact them being together is important to the ending. Huge holes in the plot like this, coupled with little sins like: “good character getting leverage over bad character just in time to save themselves and kill said bad character  trope” + the fact that everyone makes it their life goal™️ to save Marjorie, who just so happens to be the main character, under the thinly veiled pretense that it’s because she’s pregnant; make this potentially great movie seem cheap.
Before, I talk about the ending I also want to point of the use of this “non-Black woman + black man” epidemic turned pandemic that television has been using to erase black women. For this reason, I  nearly stopped watching but decided to continue on in the name of the horror/psychological thriller genre for which I have much respect.
Now, like many people who watched and will watch I’m sure I’m not the only one who was disappointed at the ending. We were offered no explanation. And I’m sure that this is supposed to be apart of the horror device but regardless, I wanted an explanation or at least a look at what they were seeing. Also, the concept of the birds, after which the movie is named, and they’re ability to sense the “creatures” were not even elaborated upon. (After doing research—as always—I found there was a book and immediately cringed that I didn’t know that and hadn’t the chance to read it first. But I was even more upset when I read the synopsis and realized it’s just as empty as the movie.)
All in all, Birdbox is a good movie that fell short of its potential. I hope that there is either a sequel or another remake of the book with better writing.