birdbox: an honest review

so this is my first movie review but i just wanted to talk about birdbox and put my two cents on it. the first time i listened to it was in the road while my grandma explained it to my mother and i (mind you, she never told us the name so we didnt know it was this movie)

the way she explained was really thorough and made it seem like an absurd film. it was totally not realistic when she told us the main protagonist´s sister crashed the car, flew away and ended up upside down while still not losing her baby (cause yeah, through all this she was pregnant). every detail my grandmother explained just continued to raise questions about its validity,

days later my insta was swarmed with birdbox memes and videos which sparked my curiosity. after a quick google search, it amazed me that birdbox was the movie i was told about. despite already knowing the story of the movie i still wanted to watch it to understand the memes and because hey, it might not be so bad.

the beginning was enough to captivate me. it transitions between (spoiler alert) her trip on the boat and the events that happened 5 years ago. Sandra Bullock plays the role of Malorie, a pregnant woman that rarely leaves the house and has panicked thoughts of her not being capable of loving her future offspring.

this movie certainly leaves you with more questions than answers. suddenly an epidemy occurs and mass suicides start happening all around the world by seeing “it”. the worst thing is we never actually get to see what is causing everything. malorie has a pregnant belly of steel and manages to fall three times on her stomach without losing her baby. people with mental disorders become immune to the monster and love seeing it, casually hunting down more people and making them see. who is this monster? what is the cause of the sudden uproar? are they aliens? why aren’t the crazy investigated further, since they could actually tell what the monsters look like?

however, forgetting all the questions and conspiracy theories im now searching for, me, being the soft i am, truly liked the movie. i cried like a baby several times and enjoyed watching every part of it. but damn, at least we learned one good thing: blind people can survive the end of the world