Omori is the story of our generation, told in the language of our generation: the ennui, the disappointment with reality, the awareness of social issues and the evils of capitalism, and the conflict between not wanting to repeat the mistakes of our parents, and nostalgia for a hyper-commercialized childhood we didn't know better than to accept at face value. Sunny's dreams thinly mask these issues in a way that actually draws more attention to them.

His reality is full of ordinary people, simply living life. He spends 3 days watching people try to fix leaks in their plumbing, finish an artistic project, save up money to move to the city in pursuit of a dream, play in the park, pay money to go on dates, collect seashells, and work as store clerks.

Somewhere amidst the noise of a mundane suburban life, we see how much has changed since the childhood of his dreams, and how much of that idyllic life could only exist in the eyes of a child.

As the days pass, the dreams catch up with reality. Aubrey goes from expecting more of the people around her, to merely lashing out at them for no one reason. Hero finds success at the cost of no longer being relatable or available to his friends. Basil becomes more of a memory than a person in the eyes of his friends, a martyr for everything our and good that our young heroes could never truly live up to. Could Basil have been saved?

Mari dies young, and is thus immortalized. She cannot be saved, but even in death, her victimhood overshadows the present struggles of everyone who still might be. Kel, the simplest and least connected ot Mari, is seemingly unchanged. One could just as easily call him innocent, ignorant, stunted, repressed, or mature.

Everyone grieves different.

"How can you go on being happy, Mari's dead!"

"Mari would want to see us smiling, wouldn't she?"

"I don't want to live without her."

"Please forgive me."

"You loved her, and you killed her."

In dwelling on how Mari might've been spared, we forget to spare one another.

We forget to spare ourselves.

"We wound eachother and we lick eachotehr's wounds" (~Nisioisin, Kizumonogatari)

Sunny became Omori, because Sunny had to die for his sins.

There is an Omori living inside everyone plagued by guilt. Maybe it's a persona used to mask one's true self, or a supposed true self that never quite makes it outside one's head.

Omori is the lie that we tell ourselves, that there is no hope, or that everything is going to be ok. Nobody is strong enough to live honestly under such weighty ideals.